Pak. j. life soc. Sci. (2024), 22(1): 107-119 E-ISSN: 2221-7630;P-ISSN: 1727-4915
Pakistan Journal of Life and Social Sciences
www.pjlss.edu.pk
https://doi.org/10.57239/PJLSS-2024-22.1.009
RESEARCH ARTICLE
Prediction of Stock Market Movement Using Long Short-Term
Memory (LSTM) Arti􀅮icial Neural Network: Analysis of KSE 100
Index
Atif Khan Jadoon 1∗, Tariq Mahmood 2, Ambreen Sarwar 3 Maria Faiq Javaid 4, Munawar Iqbal 5
1,2,3,4Department of Economics, University of the Punjab, Lahore, Pakistan
5College of Statistical Science (CSS), University of the Punjab, Lahore, Pakistan
ARTICLE INFO ABSTRACT
Received: Oct 26, 2023
Accepted: Feb 14, 2024
Keywords
Arti􀅫icial Neural Network
(ANN)
Backpropagation algorithm
KSE 100 index
Karachi stock exchange
Long Short-Term Memory
(LSTM)
Pakistan
*Corresponding Author:
ati􀅫khan.eco@pu.edu.pk
Predicting the movement of the stock price index has remained a challenging
task for 􀅫inancial analysts. They are complex, given how the nation's
economic, social, and political conditions affect stock market predictions.
The present study is designed to build an ef􀅫icient model using machine
learning and taking monthly data from February 2004 to December 2020.
Long- and short-term memory and backpropagation methods of an arti􀅫icial
neural network are utilized to predict the Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE)
movement by using twenty-six economic, social, political, and administrative
indicators. The model developed in this study to predict the movement
of the KSE 100 index gained 99 percent accuracy. The predictions' results
showed that the KSE 100 index would remain stagnant at around 40,000
points till September 2023. We compared actual and predicted values from
January 2021 to July 2022 to validate our developed model. The results
showed that the model developed in this study could be used to forecast
stock market trends. The research predicted the KSE 100 index with 99%
accuracy using LSTM and backpropagation in a neural network. The KSE
100 should stay around 40,000 points until September 2023. Despite their
promise, machine learning forecasts in 􀅫inancial markets require continuing
research, market dynamics evaluation, and liability disclosure. A thorough
validation procedure and the most recent KSE 100 index prediction using
LSTM and backpropagation algorithms demonstrate how machine learning
may improve stock market forecasting. The study's accurate projections
and consistent data through September 2023 are crucial for investors and
􀅫inancial experts in the Karachi Stock Exchange's changing environment.
INTRODUCTION
The stock market is a vital component of the
􀅫inancial sector that substantially impacts a nation's
advancement ( Demir, 2019). The stock market is
recognized as the mechanism through which 􀅫inancial
resources are redistributed among various economic
entities. The advancement in the stock market is
regarded as an indicator of the economic expansion of
107
Jadoon et al.
a nation ( Arestis and Demetriades , 1997; Kolapo and
Adaramola, 2012; Pan and Mishra , 2018). The stock
market is an ef􀅫icient platform for raising money for
individuals, corporations, and states. Being highly
liquid, it provides easy stock transactions among
interested stakeholders. Capital and 􀅫inancial market
development in any economy is primarily determined
by the number of people engaged in stock market
transactions and the stability of stock market trends
(Chhajer et al., 2022). The stock market's 􀅫luctuations
are a barometer for a nation's economic condition; a
positive performance indicates economic expansion,
while a negative performance suggests the opposite.
When the stock market exhibits a bullish trend,
more investors seeking pro􀅫it opportunities become
interested in issuing Initial Public Offerings (IPO) to
generate capital. Increased investment thus leads to
higher economic activity and growth ( Chhajer et al. ,
2022; Zaffar and Hussain, 2022).
Many factors determine the performance of the
stock market in any country. It is empirically
tested that along with technological development
and shareholder interest, several macroeconomic
indicators and the administrative quality of a state do
play a signi􀅫icant role in the stock market performance
of the country ( Adams and Klobodu , 2016; Asongu,
2012; Dima et al. , 2018;). Most researchers in the
past have found various macroeconomic indicators,
including interest rate, money demand, exchange
rate, gold prices, oil prices, and terms of trade,
to be signi􀅫icant in their impact on stock market
performance ( Al-Ameer et al. , 2018; Arjoon et al. ,
2012). These economic, political, administrative, and
social factors directly or indirectly affect the investor's
decision to invest in the country, resulting in an
increase or decrease in the value of stocks. This leads
to 􀅫luctuations in the value of stock market indices
(Gori et al. , 2023; Lehkonen and Heimonen , 2015;
Santa-Clara & Valkanov, 2003). This uncertainty in
the stock market imposes restrictions on the 􀅫inancial
development of corporations and states ( Asongu,
2012; Azeem et al. , 2017; Demir, 2019; Ali et al. ,
2023). If investors are perfectly aware of changes in
the value of a stock, they will gain maximum bene􀅫its
by investing in stocks that are expected to increase
in value. To avoid losses and gain maximum pro􀅫its,
investors search for techniques and tools to predict
stock market movements ( Ali et al. , 2021; Sahu et al. ,
2023; Ali et al., 2023).
However , predicting the stock market is tricky because
of its dynamic, stochastic, and uncertain nature
(Khan et al. , 2020; Parmar et al. , 2018). Two
primary analytical methodologies are employed in
forecasting stock market trends: technical analysis
and fundamental analysis. A researcher identi􀅫ies
the primary elements in􀅫luencing the stock market in
basic analysis. On the other hand, in technical analysis,
a researcher can predict stock market trends by using
stock prices and their trends. Predicting the stock
market trend is a dif􀅫icult task due to the nonlinear
pattern of the stock market (Rather et al., 2015; Vaisla
and Bhatt , 2010). The utilization of computational
intelligence and machine learning (ML) techniques
to forecast the 􀅫luctuations of the stock market has
experienced a substantial rise (Kumbure et al., 2022).
ML is employed to analyze and identify patterns
within data. ML techniques ef􀅫iciently analyze
complicated data and produce accurate 􀅫indings
on time ( Rouf et al. , 2021). Arti􀅫icial Neural
Networks (ANN) are now the predominant approach
in the literature for analyzing nonlinear pattern
data ( Agatonovic-Kustrin and Beresford , 2000; Rao
and Reimherr , 2023). The ANN backpropagation
technique is widely employed for reliable prediction
of future data ( Law, 2000; Siregar and Wanto ,
2017). This research analyzes the data from the
Pakistan stock market. It examines Pakistan's
key macroeconomic and social, political, and
administrative quality indicators to develop the model
with the help of an Arti􀅫icial Neural Network (ANN)
backpropagation algorithm. Moreover , based on the
developed model, the study also predicts the KSE 100
index value until September 2023.
In recent years, emerging economies have
experienced signi􀅫icant expansion in their stock
markets, presenting pro􀅫itable opportunities for
investment ( Bosworth et al. , 1999; Stiglitz, 2000).
Pakistan is a developing country facing numerous
challenges on the economic and political front.
Pakistan's stock market performance has recorded
periods of boom and bust in the recent past. Pakistan's
stock market remained unstable due to the COVID-
19 outbreak, the Russia-Ukrain war , and domestic
political instability.
108
Prediction of Stock Market Movement Using Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) Arti􀅲icial Neural Network
Predicting the behavior of Pakistan's stock market is
crucial as it may enhance investors' trust, mitigate
macroeconomic volatility, and stimulate economic
growth ( Ghani et al. , 2022). Few studies have been
conducted to predict the behavior of the stock market
in Pakistan. Ali et al. (2021) predicted the direction of
movement of the KSE 100 index along with the other
three countries, including China, Japan, and Korea,
using data from 2011 to 2020. The authors used
single-layer ANN and Support Vector Machine models
where opening, closing, high, and low prices were
used as input layers. The study only compared the
prediction accuracy of both models and concluded
that ANN has better prediction accuracy. The authors
suggested taking more macroeconomic indicators as
input layers and using a Long-Short-Term Memory
Model (LSTM) with a multilayer model.
Similarly,Jawad and Iqbal (2020) predicted Pakistan's
stock market index by introducing a deep neural
network model using technical indicators. The study
also compared the classi􀅫ication accuracy with the
other previously conducted studies. Usmani et al.
(2018) predicted the stock market's performance.
The authors used only four macroeconomic indicators,
general public sentiment, and related NEWS variables.
The author constructed four models based on
statistical techniques (simple moving average and
auto-regressive integrated moving average) and
arti􀅫icial neural network techniques (Single-layer
perceptron and multilayer multilayer perceptron).
The result from these four models merged into a single
hybrid model. The study concluded that two hybrid
models predicted results with less accuracy than the
MultilayerMultilayer Perceptron-based sub-model.
The authors also suggested using complex models like
LSTM to predict stock market behavior accurately.
The present study makes the following contributions:
Firstly, it has taken twenty-six economic, political,
social, and administrative quality variables to develop
a model to predict the movement of the KSE-100
index. No other study in the literature (to the best
of the researcher's knowledge) has used such an
extensive data set on various variables that directly
affect stock market trends. In the literature, most
studies have taken limited macroeconomic variables
or political indicators to see stock market behavior .
Secondly, the present study used an LSTM with three
hidden layers. In the case of Pakistan, only one study
has used multilayer multilayer perception with only
six indicators to see stock market trends. Lastly,
the model developed in this study can be utilized
as a policy guide for the state of Pakistan and is
bene􀅫icial for private investors. The novel use of
machine learning algorithms like Long Short-Term
Memory (LSTM) and backpropagation to anticipate
stock markets utilizing a wide range of economic,
social, political, and administrative data makes the
work theoretically signi􀅫icant. The study advances
􀅫inancial market prediction modeling by predicting
the KSE 100 index with 99% accuracy. This research
enhances 􀅫inancial forecasting analytical techniques
and emphasizes the need to include many factors
to account for the complex impacts on stock prices.
The temporal linkages of 􀅫inancial time series may
be better understood using LSTM, a sequential data
processing architecture.
MATERIAL AND METHODS
Data
The present study has used monthly data from
February 2004 to December 2020. A total of
twenty-six independent variables were used to predict
the stock market movement of Pakistan, namely
Balance of trade, Consumer 􀅫inancing for house
building, Consumer price index (a proxy for in􀅫lation),
Control of corruption, crude oil, Domestic savings,
Exchange rate, External debt stocks, Foreign direct
investment, Foreign exchange reserves, GDP growth
rate, Gold price, Government effectiveness, household
􀅫inal consumption expenditure, Industrial production
index, Industry value added, Labor force participation
rate, Money supply, Personal remittances growth,
Political stability and absence of violence or terrorism
Portfolio investment Growth rate, regulatory quality,
the rule of law, the treasure bill on the three-month
month's treasury, and the wholesale price index. The
closing price of the KSE 100 index is an output variable
to measure stock market behavior . The data on
the above-stated variables is taken from the World
Development Indicator , State Bank of Pakistan, and
Pakistan Bureau of Statistics. The arti􀅫icial neural
network is used to interpolate data from months to
days.
109
Jadoon et al.
Arti􀅮icial Neural Network (ANN)
ANN is a biologically inspired neural network for
replicating complex phenomena from the human
brain into a machine. The input layer of neurons, the
output layer of neurons, and the hidden layers of the
neurons comprise ANN. Independent and dependent
variables of the problem determine the number of
neurons in the input and output layers. The hidden
layers of neurons vary according to the complexity of
the problem.
Figure 1: Working diagram of the perceptron model of ANN
Figure 1 describes the internal workings of an arti􀅫icial
neural network with x1, x2, x3, . . . . . . . . . xn inputs
provided to the network. The SOMA (summing
function) calculates the sum of weighted time inputs
and is named a linear combiner .
vk =
n∑
j=1
wjk xj
yk = ϕ (vk − θk)
Vk is the weighted sum, and y k is the 􀅫inal output
calculated by applying suitable activation function ϕ.
Backpropagation algorithm
In the backpropagation ANN, the input is feed-forward
from the input layer to the hidden layer and then
from the hidden layer to the output layer to produce
a 􀅫inal output of the network. Based upon the error
in the 􀅫inal output, it sends back the error to the
neurons of the output and hidden layers to remove the
error in the relevant neurons to improve the overall
accuracy of the results. Figure 2 represents the 􀅫low of
information within AAN.
Figure 2: Schematic diagram of backpropagation arti􀅮icial
neural network describing the 􀅮low of information
within the network (Kim and Seo, 2015)
110
Prediction of Stock Market Movement Using Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) Arti􀅲icial Neural Network
Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM)
An ANN type called LSTM aids in processing
sequential data, including time series data, text, and
voice. Compared to conventional recurrent neural
networks, LSTM has a more complicated structure
that enables it to recall data from earlier time steps for
a more extended period using a “memory cell,” which
can selectively forget or remember information based
on input signals. Within the LSTM, several gates, such
as the input, output, and forget gates, regulate the
information 􀅫low and selectively store and discard the
information. Due to its ability to handle long-term
dependencies and avoid the vanishing gradient issue,
LSTM has grown increasingly common in various
research 􀅫ields, including time-series predictions,
voice recognition, and natural language processing.
Figure 3 shows how the LSTM is structured. Figure 3
represents the structure of LSTM.
Figure 3: Schematic diagram of LSTM networks
capable of learning long-term
dependencies, especially in sequence
prediction problems
In our research, the utilization of the ANN and LSTM
techniques for data analysis is justi􀅫ied based on
the intricate and nonlinear nature of the dataset.
The complexity and nonlinear patterns within the
data make neural networks, particularly LSTM, well-
suited for capturing such dependencies, especially
in scenarios involving time-series data with long-
range dependencies. The chosen approach excels
in automatically learning relevant features from the
data, eliminating the need for extensive manual
feature engineering, and it exhibits scalability to
handle large datasets effectively. Furthermore, the
adaptability of ANN + LSTM models to different
data types and their capacity for generalization to
unseen data positions them as versatile tools. While
acknowledging the value of conventional statistical
techniques, the decision to employ ANN and LSTM
is substantiated by their demonstrated success in
similar applications and their ability to outperform
traditional methods in scenarios where intricate
patterns and substantial datasets are prevalent.
METHODOLOGY
The present study used the backpropagation
algorithm and LSTM to predict the KSE 100 index
based on 26 macroeconomic indicators.
Table 1: Values of the parameters
Parameters Values
Learning Rate 0.0015
Maximum Epoch 5000
Input Layer 1 With 26 Input Neurons
Hidden Layers 3 With 50 Neurons each
Output Layers 1 With One Neuron.
Activation Function for Hidden Layers Tanh
Activation Function for the Output Layer Linear
111
Jadoon et al.
The backpropagation algorithm and LSTM use a
supervised learning approach to forecast results. The
present study has used 0 to 80% of the data for
training, 80 to 90% for the test, and 90% to 100%
for validation. The backpropagation algorithm's
multilayer perceptron model is used to guess the
validation data part, and LSTM is used to think of the
unknown period. This is how it is set up in Table 1.
The output in the hidden layers is determined using
the following formula with a corresponding activation
function.
yj = f
( ∑
i
wjixi − θj
)
= f ( net j)
nnettj = ∑
i wjixi − θj Where yj is an output of the
hidden layers neurons, xi is the input, and wji are the
corresponding network weights.
zi = f
( ∑
i
vijyi − θi
)
= f ( net j)
neti =
∑
i
vijyi − θi
Where zj is the output of the neuron of the output
layer . Error in the 􀅫inal output is determined as
E = 1
2
∑
l
(tl − zl) = 1
2
∑
t
(
tl − f
( ∑
i
vijyi − θi
)) 2
E = 1
2
∑ (
ti − f
( ∑
i
wjlxi − θj
)
− θl
) 2
This error is further back-propagated to the neurons
of the output layers and then to the neurons of the
input and hidden layers for further modi􀅫ication of
the corresponding weights of each layer . Error in the
neurons of the input layer can be calculated as
∂E
∂vlj
= ∑n
k=1
∂E
∂zk
· ∂E
∂vlj
= ∂E
∂zl
· ∂zl
∂vij
Where E consists of several zk, but only one is
associated with all the autonomous from each other .
∂E−
∂zl
= 1
2
∑
l
[
−2 (tk − zk) · ∂zk
∂zl
]
= − (tl − zl)
∂zl
∂vlj
= ∂zl
∂netl
· ∂netl
∂vlj
= f ′ ( net l) · yj
∂E
∂vlj
= − (tl − zl) · f ′ ( net l) · yj
δl = − (tl − zl) · f ′ ( net l)
So, the error in the neurons of the input layer: ∂E
∂vtj
= −δl · yj Errors in the neurons of the hidden layers can be
calculated as ∂E
∂wli
= ∑
l
∑
j
∂E
∂zl
· ∂zl
∂yj
· ∂zi
∂wi
∂E−1
∂zl
∑
k
[
−2 (tk − zk) · ∂zk
∂zl
]
= − (tl − zl)
∂E
∂wll
=
∑
l
(tl − zl) · f ′ ( net l) · vlj · f ′ ( net j) · xl = −
∑
l
δlvljf ′ ( net j) · xi
δ′
j = f ′ ( net j) ·
∑
l
δlvjl
So the error in the neurons of the input layer: ∂E
∂wj
= −δ′
jxi The output layer is as follows:
∆vlj = −η ∂E
∂vl
= ηδlyj
112
Prediction of Stock Market Movement Using Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) Arti􀅲icial Neural Network
Where η is the learming rate. The transformation from
the input layer to the hidden layer is de􀅫ined as:
∆wij = −η ∂E
∂wji
= η′δ′
jxi
δ′
j = f ′ ( net j) ·
∑
i
δlvij
Here, ∑
l δlvlj is showing the hidden layer's node
error; δ′
j is error of the of the output node; zl is back
propagated through the weight value vlj to the node
yj to become the error in the hidden layer's neurons.
We have utilized the LSTM, comprising an input gate,
a forget gate, and an output gate, to predict the KSE
100 index based on the macroeconomic data. The
input gate modi􀅫ies the memory of LSTM using input,
and the sigmoid function decides whether to pass
0 or 1 data. Additionally, the tanh function gives
the provided data more weight depending on the
relevance on a scale from -1 to 1 .
it = σ (Wt · [ht − 1, xt] + bi)
Ct = tanh (Wc · [ht − 1, xt] + bc)
Using the sigmoid function, Forget Gate locates the
data that must be removed from the block. It generates
a number between 0 (omit this) and 1 (keep this) by
examining the previous state (ht-1), the content input
(Xt), and each number in the cell state Ct-1.
ft = σ (Wf · [ht − 1, xt] + bf )
Output Gate determines the output by the input and
memory of the block through the following equations.
Ot = σ (W0. [ht − 1, xt] + b0)
ht = Ot ∗ tanh (Ct)
The 􀅫low of information in the LSTM is shown in Figure
4:
Figure 4: Flow of information in the LSTM network
RESUL TS AND DISCUSSION
In this study, we predicted and forecasted the
stock market trends (KSE 100 index) with the help
of economic, political, social, and administrative
indicators using the ANN's Backpropagation
algorithm and LSTM. The model utilizes the month-
end and daily closing values of the KSE 100 index.
Figure 5: ANN architecture
113
Jadoon et al.
A backpropagation of an ANN consists of an input
layer , three hidden layers, and an output layer . The
value of each independent variable is sent into one
of the 26 neurons in the network's input layer . Each
hidden layer has 50 neurons and utilizes tanh as an
activation function.
In contrast, the network's output layer consists of
a dependent variable (KSE 100 index). Connection
weights are initialized using random distribution.
The detailed structure of the backpropagation neural
networks is shown in Figure 5.
In this training process, the learning rate is 0.0015,
which is considered the scalar parameter used to
set the rate of change. The present study has used
data from February 2004 to December 2020 (203
months). Data is divided into three categories:
training, validation, and testing. The training uses
80% of the data, validation 10%, and testing 10% of
the data. Figure 6 shows the mean absolute error loss
of the LSTM.
Figure 6: During training, the mean absolute error loss
of the LSTM
Figure 6 shows that the mean absolute error loss of
the LSTM is decreasing. In other words, a decreasing
trend of mean absolute error loss shows that data
accuracy increases over time. The ANN program with
backpropagation algorithm developed for the present
study to predict the KSE 100 index has 99% accuracy.
The developed ANN model can predict the KSE 100
index values with 26 economic, social, political, and
administrative variables. Since the accuracy of the
ML algorithm increases with the increase in data, the
results of the present study more accurately predict
the KSE 100 index than the study conducted by
Usmani et al.(2018).
Figure 7: Forcasting of future trend of KSE 100 index using
LSTM
114
Prediction of Stock Market Movement Using Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) Arti􀅲icial Neural Network
Forecasting or predicting KSE 100 behavior for
investors, 􀅫inancial intermediaries, and the Pakistani
government was the primary goal of this study. The
predicted values of the KSE 100 index using LSTM are
presented in Figure 7.
In Figure 7, we predicted the value of the KSE 100
index till September 2023. Figure 7 is obtained
with the help of values forecasted by LSTM based
on input values of Pakistan's economic, social,
political, and administrative indicators. The line graph
shows that the KSE 100 index will exceed 50,000 in
September 2023. This is mainly due to Pakistan's
bad macroeconomic situation in the last twenty
years. Moreover , Pakistan's social, administrative,
and political crisis could be helping the stock
market perform better . The political instability has
remained one of the signi􀅫icant reasons for Pakistan's
economic collapse. Only a few prime ministers in the
history of Pakistan have completed their 􀅫ive-year
term. Pakistan is facing multiple issues, including
political crises, payment balance issues, shortage of
foreign exchange, and foreign debt, that have caused
investors to lose con􀅫idence in Pakistan (ProPK, 2022).
Presently, Pakistan has implemented such policies,
which caused the shutdown of the industrial sector of
Pakistan. According to the All-Pakistan Textile Mills
Association, 1600 textile mills have shut down their
shops. Due to this, roughly 􀅫ive million people will lose
their jobs as textiles are a major export of Pakistan.
Fourteen listed companies announced shutting
operations from September 2022 to December 2022
due to low demand and high energy prices ( Ahmed,
2023). The relatively high interest rate has also
reduced investment signi􀅫icantly in Pakistan. In
January 2023, the in􀅫lation rate increased to 27.6%,
and foreign exchange reserves have been at the lowest
level in the last 20 years. The expected in􀅫lation
rate in Pakistan is 33% in the 􀅫irst half of 2023
(Bhat and Peshimam , 2023). According to Turak
(2023), the energy crises, corruption, and currency
devaluation brought Pakistan to collapse. These
economic, political, and social issues also augment
and affect the KSE 100 index. Our results through
LSTM also suggest that shortly, the economy will see
a slight improvement, and the value of the KSE 100
index will be less than the 40,000 mark in September
2023.
The actual and predicted values from January 2021
to July 2022 are compared to check the accuracy of
the prediction made by our developed model in this
study through ANN Backpropagation. The trends of
actual and forecasted values of the KSE 100 index are
presented in Figure 8.
Figure 8: Line chart of predicted and actual values of the KSE
100 index according to the division of data provided
to the network
The actual values of the KSE 100 index are represented
with the orange line, while a blue line denotes the
forecasted values of the KSE 100 index. The predicted
and actual values are very close, or even in November
2021, both are the same. Figure 8 shows that
the model developed through ANN Backpropagation
could be used to forecast the value of the KSE
100 index. In this way, the study can signi􀅫icantly
115
Jadoon et al.
help investors, 􀅫inancial intermediaries, and even the
government of Pakistan.
Theoretical contribution
In literature, three theories explain the stock market
behavior: the Ef􀅫icient Market Hypothesis, the
Random Walk Hypothesis, and the Dow theory.
According to EMH, stock prices include all the
available information, and it is impossible to predict
future stock price changes. Therefore, Investors can
only outperform the market and make a small pro􀅫it.
RWM, on the other hand, states that stock prices are
random, and one cannot predict future stock prices
accurately because stock prices are independent of
other market factors. Both these theories suggest
that stock traders cannot make pro􀅫its in the short
run. Dow theory explains that stock prices move
in trends consisting of three phases: accumulation,
markup, and distribution. The strength of a trend is
determined primarily by trading volume. This theory
claims that current trends in stock prices can be used
to predict future movements. This theory asserts that
stock prices exhibit random 􀅫luctuations in the short
run. However , in the long run, underlying economic
and noneconomic factors can help predict future
trends in the stock market. The results of this study
are consistent with Dow theory as data for different
economic, political, social, and administrative factors
over a more extended period is used to predict future
stock market values with 99 percent accuracy. These
results can be helpful for traders to gain maximum
bene􀅫its from investment in the stock market.
CONCLUSION
The study provides a machine learning-based solution
to the problematic stock price index prediction
issue. This study uses arti􀅫icial neural networks'
backpropagation and Long Short-Term Memory
(LSTM). These methods are notable for evaluating
sequential data and constructing robust prediction
frameworks. The comprehensive dataset used in
this study covers monthly data from February 2004
to December 2020. The model's sizeable temporal
range covers many market conditions, making stock
market behavior easier to explain. The model
includes twenty-six economic, social, political, and
administrative components. Different indicators may
impact the KSE 100 index. The method predicted
KSE 100 index movements with 99 percent accuracy,
the study's most outstanding achievement. Accuracy
shows the model's ability to recognize and respond to
stock market trends. This model forecasts a KSE 100
index of 40,000 points till September 2023. It helps
􀅫inancial specialists and investors handle market
conditions with vital information. We compared
observed and expected values for January 2021
to July 2022 to assess our model's dependability
and robustness. This validation method shows our
model's 􀅫lexibility and extrapolation, boosting its
dependability in real-world market circumstances.
Implications
The analysis reveals several practical implications that
affect every 􀅫inancial sector . Financial professionals
and people may now manage stock market dynamics
using a tool. Backpropagation and LSTM make
machine learning dependable for investment. The
model's 99 percent KSE 100 index prediction accuracy
makes it a reliable risk-reward instrument. Risk
management is crucial to 􀅫inancial decision-making,
and this predictive model helps. It predicts and
manages market volatility using economic, social,
political, and administrative data. These estimates
assist corporations and investors in managing risk and
market volatility. Portfolio optimization is challenging
in turbulent 􀅫inancial markets, but the study supports
it. Portfolio managers can utilize predictions to
reallocate assets to improve returns, as the KSE 100
index is predicted to stay stable until September
2023. With such market insight, portfolio managers
may better allocate assets. Practical uses include
market timing, a crucial trading component. Market
entry and departure decisions may be made utilizing
the model's 􀅫indings. The expected stability of the
KSE 100 index lets traders plan market-pro􀅫itable
deals. The study's conclusions affect strategic strategy
and investment. The model may guide businesses
and politicians in aligning their plans with market
trends. A thorough review of economic, social,
political, and administrative data helps decision-
makers comprehend market dynamics.
The study makes a signi􀅫icant theoretical contribution
to the emerging discipline of predictive modeling.
The success of LSTM and backpropagation arti􀅫icial
neural network models emphasizes feature selection.
By incorporating twenty-six indications from other
116
Prediction of Stock Market Movement Using Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) Arti􀅲icial Neural Network
domains, the model's accuracy is improved, and
additional research into the potential of different
indicator types in predictive model creation is
encouraged. The study also sheds light on prediction
model generalizability. The KSE 100 index movement
is predicted with great accuracy, demonstrating
generalizability. This raises questions about using
machine learning models in other 􀅫inancial markets
and scenarios besides the Karachi Stock Exchange.
This study examines 􀅫inancial market temporal
dynamics. Forecasting KSE 100 index stability
within a certain period helps understand market
circumstances. Financial market temporal dynamics
may be studied by using this temporal viewpoint
in discussions of stock market indices' stability
and volatility. The study emphasizes the need
for rigorous validation approaches for 􀅫inancial
forecasting machine learning models. A complete
comparison of actual and anticipated values over time
evaluates the model's ef􀅫icacy against empirical data.
Prioritizing robust validation approaches enhances
model dependability and real-world applicability.
Limitations and future direction
The study acknowledges certain limitations that
require examination. First, using historical data
assumes that indications and stock market changes
will endure over time. Unexpected structural changes
may challenge this assumption, reducing the model's
accuracy. Data quality and accessibility might also
restrict the model's capacity to extrapolate to new
market conditions. The study's long prediction
horizon, until September 2023, raises concerns
about the model's long-term ability to react to
changing market conditions. To keep models relevant,
future research may focus on dynamic updating.
Ensemble modeling may improve prediction accuracy
and reduce model risk by mixing many machine
learning methods. Indicators may be expanded and
enhanced based on new insights or data sources to
improve prediction capabilities. External inputs like
􀅫inancial news sentiment analysis or social media
can capture instantaneous market sentiment and
improve reaction to unexpected movements. Domain
specialist collaboration may provide valuable insights
and help 􀅫ix model 􀅫laws. Strict cross-validation
techniques must include out-of-sample testing to
verify the model's resilience. These factors enable
the improvement of stock market trend forecasting
machine learning systems.
DAT A AVAILABILITY ST ATEMENT
Monthly data from February 2004 to December 2020
is taken from the World Development Indicator , State
Bank of Pakistan, and Pakistan Bureau of Statistics.
REFERENCES
Adams S, Klobodu EKM; 2016. Financial
development, control of corruption and income
inequality. International Review of Applied
Economics, 30(6):790-808.
Agatonovic-Kustrin S, Beresford R; 2000. Basic
concepts of Arti􀅫icial Neural Network (ANN)
modeling and its application in pharmaceutical
research. Journal of pharmaceutical and
biomedical analysis, 22(5):717-727.
Ahmed A, Bleak times ahead for Pakistan’s
manufacturing sector; 2023. https:
//shorturl.at/tJVX0.
Al-Ameer M, Hammad W , Ismail A, Hamdan A; 2018.
The relationship of gold price with the stock
market: The case of Frankfurt Stock Exchange.
International Journal of Energy Economics and
Policy, 8(5):357.
Ali M, Khan DM, Aamir M, Ali A, Ahmad Z; 2021.
Predicting the direction movement of 􀅫inancial
time series using arti􀅫icial neural network and
support vector machine. Complexity, 2021:1-13.
Ali M, Khan DM, Alshanbari HM, El-Bagoury AAAH;
2023. Prediction of complex stock market
data using an improved hybrid emd-lstm model.
Applied Sciences, 13(3):1429.
Arestis P , Demetriades P; 1997. Financial
development and economic growth: Assessing
the evidence. The Economic Journal,
107(442):783-799.
Arjoon R, Botes M, Chesang LK, Gupta R; 2012.
The long-run relationship between in􀅫lation and
accurate stock prices: Empirical evidence from
South Africa. Journal of Business Economics and
Management, 13(4):600-613.
117
Jadoon et al.
Asongu SA; 2012. Government quality determinants
of stock market performance in African
countries. Journal of African Business,
13(3):183-199.
Azeem A, Aziz B, Jadoon AK; 2017. Better tool
for economic growth? Banks or secondary
markets; Empirical evidence from selected
ASIAN countries. Paradigms, 11(1):41.
Bhat S, Peshimam GN, In􀅫lation in Pakistan could
average 33Moody's economist; 2023. https://
shorturl.at/ahJP7.
Bosworth BP , Collins SM, Reinhart CM; 1999. Capital
􀅫lows to developing economies: Implications
for saving and investment. Brookings papers on
economic activity, 1999(1):143-180.
Chhajer P , Shah M, Kshirsagar A; 2022. The
applications of arti􀅫icial neural networks,
support vector machines, and long-short term
memory for stock market prediction. Decision
Analytics Journal, 2:100015.
Demir C; 2019. Macroeconomic determinants of
stock market 􀅫luctuations: The case of BIST -100.
Economies, 7(1):8.
Dima B, Barna F , Nachescu ML; 2018. Does
rule of law support the capital market?.
Economic Research-Ekonomska Istraživanja,
31(1):461-479.
Ghani M, Guo Q, Ma F , Li T; 2022. Forecasting
Pakistan stock market volatility: Evidence from
economic variables and the uncertainty index.
International Review of Economics & Finance,
80:1180-1189.
Gori L, Luigi Sacco P , Teti E, Triveri F; 2023.
Commentary—Much ado About Something
Else. Donald Trump, the US Stock Market,
and the Public Interest Ethics of Social
Media Communication. International
Journal of Business Communication, p.
23294884231156903.
Jawad Y , Iqbal MJ.; 2020.Pakistan Stock Exchange
Analysis and Forecasting using Hybrid Machine
Learning Technique. In: 2020 IEEE 23rd
International Multitopic Conference (INMIC)
IEEE p. 1-6.
Khan W , Ghazanfar MA, Azam MA, Karami A, Alyoubi
KH, Alfakeeh AS; 2020. Stock market prediction
using machine learning classi􀅫iers and social
media, news. Journal of Ambient Intelligence
and Humanized Computing, 13:1-24.
Kim SE, Seo IW; 2015. Arti􀅫icial Neural Network
ensemble modeling with conjunctive data
clustering for water quality prediction in
rivers. Journal of Hydro-Environment Research,
9(3):325-339.
Kolapo FT , Adaramola AO; 2012. The impact
of the Nigerian capital market on economic
growth (1990-2010). International Journal of
Developing Societies, 1(1):11-19.
Kumbure MM, Lohrmann C, Luukka P , Porras J; 2022.
Machine learning techniques and data for stock
market forecasting: A literature review. Expert
Systems with Applications, 197:116659.
Law R; 2000. Back-propagation learning in
improving the accuracy of neural network-
based tourism demand forecasting. Tourism
Management, 21(4):331-340.
Lehkonen H, Heimonen K; 2015. Democracy, political
risks and stock market performance. Journal of
International Money and Finance, 59:77-99.
Pan L, Mishra V; 2018. Stock market development
and economic growth: Empirical evidence from
China. Economic Modelling, 68:661-673.
Parmar I, Agarwal N, Saxena S, Arora R, Gupta S,
Dhiman H, et al..; 2018.Stock market prediction
using machine learning. In: 2018 First
International Conference on Secure Cyber
Computing and Communication (ICSCCC) IEEE
p. 574-576.
ProPK, Business con􀅫idence takes shocking dip in
latest OICCI survey; 2022. https://shorturl.at/
hpKS5.
Rao AR, Reimherr M; 2023. Nonlinear Functional
Modeling Using Neural Networks. Journal of
Computational and Graphical Statistics (Just
accepted), p. 1-10.
Rather AM, Agarwal A, Sastry V; 2015. Recurrent
neural network and a hybrid model for
prediction of stock returns. Expert Systems
with Applications, 42(6):3234-3241.
118
Prediction of Stock Market Movement Using Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) Arti􀅲icial Neural Network
Rouf N, Malik MB, Arif T , Sharma S, Singh S, Aich
S, et al.; 2021. Stock market prediction using
machine learning techniques: A decade survey
on methodologies, recent developments, and
future directions. Electronics, 10(21):2717.
Sahu SK, Mokhade A, Bokde ND; 2023. An
Overview of Machine Learning, Deep Learning,
and Reinforcement Learning-Based Techniques
in Quantitative Finance: Recent Progress and
Challenges. Applied Sciences, 13(3):1956.
Siregar SP , Wanto A; 2017. Analysis of arti􀅫icial
neural network accuracy using backpropagation
algorithm in predicting process (forecasting).
IJISTECH (International Journal of Information
System and Technology), 1(1):34-42.
Stiglitz JE; 2000. Capital market liberalization,
economic growth, and instability. World
Development, 28(6):1075-1086.
Turak N, Blackouts, currency dives and corruption:
Pakistan’s economy is on the brink of collapse;
2023. https://shorturl.at/cwOP9.
Usmani M, Ebrahim M, Adil SH, Raza K.;
2018.Predicting market performance with
hybrid model. In: 2018 3rd International
Conference on Emerging Trends in Engineering,
Sciences and Technology (ICEEST) IEEE p. 1-4.
Vaisla KS, Bhatt AK; 2010. An analysis of the
performance of arti􀅫icial neural network
technique for stock market forecasting.
International Journal on Computer Science
and Engineering, 2(6):2104-2109.
Zaffar A, Hussain SA; 2022. Modeling and prediction
of KSE--100 index closing based on news
sentiments: An applications of machine learning
model and ARMA (p, q) model. Multimedia Tools
and Applications, 81(23):33311-33333.
119