99 
 
 
 
Journal of Statistics, Computing and 
Interdisciplinary Research 
ISSN (P): 2707-7101 
 
J. Stat. Comp. & Interdis. Rese. 
Volume 5(2) (2023), 99-119 
http://scir.wum.edu.pk/index.php/ojs 
 
Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning  
during Covid-19 
Saba Zahid1*, Hassan Mujtaba Nawaz Saleem2 
1Ph.D. Scholar, Institute of Business Management & Administrative Sciences, The 
Islamia University of Bahawalpur. 
2Associate Professor, Institute of Business Management & Administrative Sciences, 
The Islamia University of Bahawalpur. 
*Corresponding author: s21bmgmt4m01034@iub.edu.pk 
 
Abstract 
Predicting the stock prices’ movement has been considered a tedious task due to the 
stock market's volatile behavior. This study is an attempt to predict stock prices based 
on 15 trading factors by applying deep learning algorithm support vector machine 
(SVM) on daily price data of three stocks of COVID -19, collected from secondary 
sources and processed through Python software. The finding of this study suggests that 
the linear kernel gives 53%, the polynomial kernel gives 46% and the radical basis 
function (RBF) kernel gives 62% validation accuracy, which shows the RBF kernel 
predictive ability is highest than others during high volatility. The current study 
contributes to the stock return literature-originated machine learning algorithms during 
the unprecedented market condition.  The finding of this study is helpful for investors 
and traders who calculate stock return in their portfolio diversified decisions, regulators, 
and policymakers in the formulation of their regulations & implementation decisions 
while the market condition is unprecedented. Thus, the support vector machine (SVM) 
algorithm offers an accurate prediction of stock return to investors who invest during 
high volatility.  
Key Words:  Pakistan Stock Exchange, Stock Returns Prediction, Support Vector Machine, 
Covid-19 & Machine Learning. 
Introduction: 
Sudden stop in a large steam of activities of national and global economies due to a respiratory 
syndrome known as covid-19 (Shafi, Liu et al. 2020). Enterprises experience a significant impact 

saba et al. (2023) 
100 
 
of this outbreak (Dyduch, Chudziński et al. 2021). Develop and under developing both economies 
suffering in a bad situation by imposing lockdown (Alsamhi, Al-Ofairi et al. 2022). UNIDO (2020) 
state SMES in Pakistan have negative impact of covid-19. However, impact density varies on the 
basis of firm size, sector, nature of business and the technology utilization. In Pakistan 90% 
business show decline in their revenue, while 2% firm show positive attitude respect to their profit. 
Pakistan economy that suffering already in a recovery position hit badly due to covid-19 pandemic 
(Amir, Farooq et al. 2022). 
Predicting the movement of stock prices has been the focus of the study by experts in a broad 
variety of disciplines, including economics, history, finance, mathematics, and computer 
technology. The stock market’s volatility makes it challenging to use con ventional statistical 
methods, such as time -series analysis or regression (Gupta, Nel et al. 2023). Many proprietary 
information models have been developed by banking firms and traders to outperform the market, 
but few of them have been consistently successful (Kolte, Roy et al. 2023). However, the allure of 
stock forecasting lies in the fact that even a modest gain of a few percent might result in a million-
dollar windfall for these organizations.  
Stochastic linear time -series models, such as the ARIMA, have long been the primary focus of 
many forecasts (Y.A. L. B. Gianluca Bontempi 2015). However, no-linear models such as ARCH 
generally have lower prediction errors due to the volatility underlying the movements of stocks 
and other commodities, making liner strategies unsatisfactory (Zhang, Shan et al. 2009). In recent 
years, analysts have looked to big information and machine learning methods from the area of 
computer science to better predict stock prices. These make use of computing capacity to develop 
mathematical and statistical hypotheses. To “figure out” the answer to a problem, machine learning 
algorithms analyze existing data. Algorithms and high-frequency trading procedures employed by 
financial firms are also based on big information and machine learning approaches. 
In this paper, we use Support Vector Machines, a machine learning technique known as SVM with 
their three different kernels to check the accuracy of price prediction during high volatility. 
Specifically, we want to utilize SVM at time t to forecast whether the price of a certain stock will 
be greater or lower on day t + 1. The time t represents the time in which market conditions around 
the world, resulted in a global recession of Covid-19 because the economic impact of this pandemic 
is still unknown. In this study fifteen factors are used to predict stock prices, these fifteen factors 
are further divided into four main categories, which include volume and price factor, valuation 
factor, risk factors, and scale factors. Pakistan stock market’s three stocks are analyzed. We placed 
Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning during Covid-19 
101 
 
the algorithms on fifteen variables, of three stocks including the food, personal care products, 
automobile assembler, and pharmaceutical industry’s daily data. These values are determined by 
utilizing the final prices of each stock each day between 2020 a nd 2022. In this research, we 
investigate whether or not this past information can aid in predicting the future course of prices 
while the market suffers from high volatility. In addition to this analysis, the accuracy of 3 different 
kernels of SVM is name d polynomial kernel, linear kernel, and RBF kernel. According to the 
Efficient Markets Hypothesis (EMH), prices should fluctuate at random in response to information 
in the market.  
 Background information: 
 Stock Market Efficiency: 
The market efficiency hypothesis, a popular topic of economic study, states that stock prices 
already represent all relevant information and are, therefore, unexpected (Kang, Zong et al. 2023). 
The EMH states that stock prices will act randomly as they rea ct to fresh information. They are 
unpredictable if they solely react to fresh information because predictable movement would 
indicate that information was not represented by market rates, the fact that shares move randomly 
is evidence of market efficiency (Chen 2023, Sheth and Shah 2023).  
The weak, semi-strong, and strong forms of this theory exist. The majority of studies have found 
support for the somewhat strong interpretation. This version asserts that stock prices accurately 
represent all publicly accessible information; nevertheless, non-public data may be exploited to 
make biased predictions of future earnings, and because of this, insider trading rules are so strict 
(Chhajer, Shah et al. 2022). The EMH is challenged, however, by a few features of the market. 
Anomalies in the market i n the market describe these situations. The short -term momentum in 
stock prices was found by Jagadeesh and Titman. Recently increasing stock keep increasing while 
decreasing ones keep decreasing. The pattern would seem to imply that stock values in the fut ure 
are somewhat predictable, which would go counter to the EMH (Jegadeesh and Titman 1993). 
Seasonal patterns may be seen in the stock market as well. Through analysis of data spanning 
decades, Jacobsen and Zhang discovered that trading techniques may tak e advantage of seasonal 
patterns of high cold returns and low summertime returns to generate profits (Ben Jacobsen 2012, 
Jacobsen 2012, Jacobsen and Zhang 2014). If the EMH were accurate, then it would be impossible 
to forecast the direction in which futur e stock prices with a probability higher than 50%. Simply 
put, one should not have any more luck predicting whether prices will rise or fall in the future than 
they would be using a random number generator (Yang and Ma 2022, Zhang and Wu 2022, Kurani, 
saba et al. (2023) 
102 
 
Doshi et al. 2023). However, as shown, machine learning approaches may use momentum as well 
as other price patterns to anticipate price direction with higher than 50% accuracy, as seen by the 
research covered therein (Krollner, Vanstone et al. 2010, Chen 2022, Khashanah and Shao 2022). 
General Machine Learning: 
Both traditional and modern machine learning methods fall into one of two broad categories. The 
first kind is called supervised learning, and it requires training data in the form of examples that 
have been labeled to show what the desired outcome should be for each feature set included in the 
example. A dataset’s characteristics and labels are sent to algorithms as training examples, and the 
algorithm is tasked with using this information to predict the labels for a second dataset (test 
data)(Tiphimmala 2014, Illa, Parvathala et al. 2022). In contrast, unsupervised learning relies on 
unlabeled samples in the feature set. As a rule, algorithms will attempt to “cluster” your data into 
meaningful categories.  
Regression and classification issues are subsets of supervised learning. In classification problems, 
the output is discretely labeled as one of many possible categories, but in regression problems, it 
takes on a continuous range of values. In this study, w e frame the issue of predicting stock prices 
as one of categorization. To forecast whether a stock’s price will be higher or lower than the current 
day’s price days from now, the feature set of its recent price fluctuations and momentum is 
combined by calculating the stock return and making standardization of this return by comparing 
actual return.  
Previous Research: 
Artificial neural networks have been the primary focus of the study in the field of machine learning 
for predicting (ANN) (Krollner, Vanstone et al. 2010, Al-Najjar 2022). Artificial neural networks 
(ANNs) simulate the structure of the nervous system by us ing a network of interconnected nodes 
that stand in for individual neurons (input layer, processing layer, and output layer, etc.). the input 
is fed into the ANN, and then the output is computed using the weights that have been assigned to 
the various connections. As it learns, the computer will adjust the weights based on the patterns it 
finds in the training data. When the data does not contain drastic shifts, as shown by Kar, ANNs 
may achieve high accuracy (Bregu, Shosha et al. , Kar 1990, Kar 1990, de O liveira, Zárate et al. 
2011, Fagner Andrade de Oliveira 2011, A. Victor Devadoss 2013). Although Patel and yalamalle 
both agree that ANNs may achieve prediction accuracy of just over 50%, they warn that the 
nonlinear and temporal changes in stock market da ta make it challenging for even the most 
sophisticated methods to make accurate forecasts (Patel and Yalamalle 2014).  
Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning during Covid-19 
103 
 
Recent research on the topic has employed another technology known as support vector machines 
in addition to or as an option for ANNs. SVMs may commit classification mistakes inside training 
data to reduce total error across test data, while ANNs are model s that strive to decrease 
classification errors within the training data. A key benefit of SVMs is that it finds a global 
optimum, while the neural network may only discover a local optimum (Kim 2003, Krollner, 
Vanstone et al. 2010, Khashanah and Shao 2022, Kurani, Doshi et al. 2023).  
By using a support vector machine (SVM) model, Kim achieved a prediction accuracy of up to 
57% (using test data outputs), which is much over the 50% criterion. According to the findings of 
survey research on stock prediction done by the Shah, SVM is the most effective machine learning 
model. Kim’s conclusion is in line with his 60% success record in making predictions. Since most 
current research has integrated SVMs, this is the approach we employ in our study (Lv, Guo et al. 
2022, Sheth and Shah 2023). 
Support Vector Machines: 
For binary classification, Support Vector Machines are among the top options. As a result, they 
establish a dividing line between the two sets of data, with most of the points in one set lying on 
one side of the line and most of the points in the second lying on the other. Think of a characteristic 
vector x = (X1,…, Xn) with n dimensions (Milke 2022, Koranteng 2023).  A linear border 
(hyperplane) may be defined as follows: - 
𝛽° + 𝛽1𝑥1 + ⋯ + 𝛽𝑛𝑥𝑛  =  𝛽° + ∑ 𝛽𝑖𝑥𝑖 = 0
𝑛
𝑖=1
 
 
The other the total of the items in one set will be more than zero, while the sum of the elements in 
the other set will be less than zero. Labeled instances have y, where y is the label. We use the 
notation y = 1,1 to organize things. 
𝑌 = 𝛽° + ∑ 𝛼𝑖𝑦𝑖𝑥(𝑖) ∗ 𝑥 
The recast the hyperplane equation, we may use inner products. The best hyperplane is the one 
where we have the greatest possible separation between the plane and any given point. The margin 
represents this extra space. When dividing the information, the d ecision boundary hyperplane 
(MMH) is optimal. Since this may not be a perfect separation, we may include error variables 1…n 
and constrain their total to be less than some limit B. The most important consideration when 
saba et al. (2023) 
104 
 
choosing a hyperplane is its proximity to the border. The points themselves are called support 
vectors, and the classification hyperplane that assigns each support vector to one of two categories 
is called a support vector classifier (SVC).  
While the idea behind the SVC is similar to that of ordinary least squares (OLS), another well -
known linear regression model, the two models maximize different values (Ghimire, Guéguen et 
al. 2022). The OLS calculates the sum of squares of the residuals, or the distances from each piece 
of data to the fit line. On the other hand, the SVC is concerned only with the support vectors, and 
it uses the inner product the optimize the distance from the hyperplane to the support vector. 
Additionally, in SVC, the inn er products are weighted by their labels, but in OLS, the weighting 
is the square of residuals. As a result, SVC and OLS are two distinct strategies for tackling the 
issue.  
The restriction of SVCs to linear bounds is a major limitation. To address this problem, SVMs use 
non-linear kernel functions to translate the inputs to a higher -dimensional space, where they may 
be classified linearly. Classifications that are linear in t he higher dimensional space will be non -
linear in the lower dimensional space. The SVM ramps the input to higher dimensions by 
substituting a more generic kernel function K for the inner product. So, for a support vector 
machine, y = 0+iyiK(x(i),x) describes this relationship. 
Linear kernel: 
A linear kernel is a feature space corresponding with its original feature space. In linear kernels no 
shadowy involved in n-dimensional space, they direct translate Euclidian distances. Linear kernel 
support vector machine performs well only on very simple problems. The algorithm performance 
is worse due to the more indecipherable boundaries between class clusters. 
 

Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning during Covid-19 
105 
 
Polynomial kernel: 
The polynomial regression feature space represents the polynomial feature space corresponding; 
both are the same. In a polynomial kernel each x feature is copied over to x2, x3………., xn up to 
the degree, and then draw the feature space by separating the hyp erplanes. Concerning their 
polynomial nature, they draw them in two dimensions. The polynomial kernel of the support vector 
classifier has unique degree parameters. The  higher the degree the resulting space is more 
overfitted. Hyperplanes remain continuous and boundless while generating space and separating 
them. 
 
RBF kernel: 
The most popular kernel choice in support vector machines is the RBF kernel. RBF is known as 
the radical basis function. This function is used to approximate the other functions and is used 
default in sklearn. The kernel is translated in complex math but b asically, they draw the most 
complex boundaries that one’s available to Sklearn. Kernel density estimation is through behind 
kernel smoothing which includes KDE plotting that is popular in EDA machine learning. 
 

saba et al. (2023) 
106 
 
  
Model Creation and Evaluation Method: 
This study uses SVM by focusing on its three different kernels for price forecasting. This study 
aims to find the best kernel that is used SVM model to see an opportunity to predict stock price by 
applying the historical stock data through the pandemic data and subsequent recovery period. 
The Framework of Stock Prediction: 
 
  
Data Collection and Time Frame: 
Economic conditions greatly deteriorated during covid-19. Unemployment increases that create a 
downturn in the Labor market, which enhances the depression of the great pandemic. This study 
wants to analyze the historical factors that predict stock prices w hile the market is unstable. This 
study also wants to see which kernel of the SVM model performs well during high volatility. The 
study used historical data on covid-19 by focusing on 3 stocks from 3 different sectors. Focusing 
on three different sectors a s opposed to a single sector allows us to test the model on different 
nature companies making our results relatively standardized. Automobile assembler (Atlas Honda 
limited), food and personal care (Fuji Foods limited), and pharmaceuticals (abbot laborator ies 
limited) sector stock included in this study. Stock price data were obtained from the Pakistan stock 
exchange website.  
SVM model: 
Three kernel functions of SVM is used in this study, to check the accuracy of stock prediction, 
which include linear kernel, polynomial kernel, and radical kernel. 
The function of the linear kernel in SVM. 
• Transaction 
Data 𝓢 (𝒊,𝒌,𝒕)
Enter
• SVM
• Linear Kernel
• Polly Kernel
• RBF Kernel
Method • Forecasting 
Price 𝑃
(𝑖,𝑡+1)
Output
Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning during Covid-19 
107 
 
𝐾(𝑥, 𝑥𝑘) = ∑(𝑥𝑖𝑗. 𝑥𝑘𝑗)
𝑛
𝑗=1
 
The function of a polynomial kernel in SVM. 
𝐾(𝑥, 𝑥𝑘) = (∑ 𝑎 + 𝑥𝑖𝑗
𝑡
𝑛
𝑗=1
𝑥𝑗)𝑏 
The function of a radical kernel in SVM. 
𝐾(𝑥𝑖, 𝑥𝑘)  = exp( − 1
𝛿2 ∑(𝑥𝑖𝑗 − 𝑥𝑘𝑗)2
𝑛
𝑗=1
) 
The Python library that is used for this SVM model is numpy and pandas. 
Feature selection: 
This study uses 15 trading factors that are mainly divided into four broader categories, which 
include volume and price factors, valuation factors, risk factors, and scale factors. (Table 1) 
Method   
Table 1 describes how each feature is calculated. To calculate the trading, feature this study looks 
at everyday trading data from 2020 through March 2022. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
 
 
▪ Previous day 
closing price 
▪ Trading volume  
▪ Opening price  
▪ Average price  
▪ Closing price  
▪ Lowest price 
▪ Turnover 
▪ Highest price 
 
▪ P/B ratio  
▪ P/E ratio 
▪ P/S ratio 
▪ Up & Downs of 
Rs 
▪ Turnover Rate 
▪ Total Market 
Capitalization 
▪ Total Equity 
Trading Factor 
saba et al. (2023) 
108 
 
Results: 
The training accuracy and validation accuracy of three stocks concerning three different kernels 
of the SVM model is shown in Table 2. 
Stocks 
Training Accuracy Validation Accuracy 
Linear 
Kernel 
Polynomial 
Kernel 
Radicle 
Kernel 
Linear 
Kernel 
Polynomial 
Kernel 
Radicle 
Kernel 
ABOT 0.582 0.584 0.622 0.626 0.562 0.621 
FFL 0.367 0.407 0.383 0.441 0.381 0.502 
HCAR 0.467 0.408 0.624 0.412 0.413 0.521 
 
Table 2 
The training accuracy of ABOT stock is 58% and validation accuracy is 62% by using a linear 
kernel of the SVM model. The training accuracy of ABOT stock is 58% and validation accuracy 
is 56% by using a polynomial kernel of the SVM model. The training accuracy of ABOT stock is 
62% and validation accuracy is also 62% by using the radicle kernel of the SVM model. That 
means the radical kernel of SVM is more competent to predict the volatility during unstable market 
condition. The density of all 15 factors respect to the ABOT model show in appendix figure 1. The 
individual factor predictive capability of ABOT each factor shown in appendix figure 2. Training 
accuracy of all factors respect to three kernels of ABOT train algo shown in appendix 3. The 
feature engineering that is used in train and test model respect to factors pairing to evaluate the 
predictive accuracy of ABOT shown in appendix 4. The price movement of ABOT stock is shown 
in the below figure 1. 
 
  
Figure 1 

Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning during Covid-19 
109 
 
The training accuracy of FFL stock is 36% and validation accuracy is 44% by using a linear kernel 
of the SVM model. The training accuracy of FFL stock is 40% and validation accuracy is 38% by 
using a polynomial kernel of the SVM model. The training accurac y of FFL stock is 38% and 
validation accuracy is 50% by using the radicle kernel of the SVM model. That means the radical 
kernel of SVM is more competent to predict the volatility during unstable market condition. The 
density of all 15 factors respect to t he FFL model is shown in appendix figure 5. The individual 
factor predictive capability of FFL is each factor shown in appendix figure 6. Training accuracy 
of all factors respect to three kernels of FFL train algo shown in appendix 7. The feature 
engineering that is used in train and test model respect to factors pairing to evaluate the predictive 
accuracy of FFL shown in appendix 8. The price movement of FFL stock is shown in the below 
figure 2. 
 
Figure 2 
The training accuracy of HCAR stock is 46% and validation accuracy is 41% by using a linear 
kernel of the SVM model. The training accuracy of HCAR stock is 40% and validation accuracy 
is 41% by using a polynomial kernel of the SVM model. The training accuracy of HCAR stock is 
62% and validation accuracy is also 52% by using the radicle kernel of the SVM model. That 
means the radical kernel of SVM is more competent to predict the volatility during unstable market 
condition. The density of all 15 factors respecting the HCAR model show in appendix figure 9. 
The individual factor predictive capability of HCAR each factor shown in appendix figure 10. 
Training accuracy of all factors respect to three kernels of HCAR train algo shown in appendix 11. 
The feature engineering that is used in train and test model respect to factors pairing to evaluate 
the predictive accuracy of HCAR shown in appendix 12. The price movement of HCAR stock is 
shown in the below figure 3. 

saba et al. (2023) 
110 
 
 
Figure 3 
Discussion: 
The innovation of the stock selection model proposed in this study by using fifteen trading factors 
as a predictive factor to evaluate the forecasted price of stock while the market condition is highly 
volatile. Trading factors contain the historical infor mation of stocks daily. To prove the 
effectiveness of the SVM kernel the proposed stock selection model compared three kernels of 
SVM. The finding of this study suggests that the linear kernel gives 53%, the polynomial kernel 
gives 46% and the radical basis function (RBF) kernel gives 62% validation accuracy. The results 
show that the radical kernel of SVM that adopted a model of machine learning used in this study 
performs better than Linear and Polly kernels. This study also supports the idea that  machine 
learning model plays an important role in stock selection while the market condition is 
unprecedented. Additionally, historic data is an optimized predictor of stock forecasting by using 
machine learning during high volatility.  
Future Work: 
This study used daily data, but the market swings its mood every minute or second, next study by 
looking at intra-day trading data enhances the accuracy of the model by considering intra-day data 
to create robust that capitalized on sudden changes. 
Machine learning model accuracy greatly depends on feature selection. In this study, we consider 
trading factors, and future work may consider economic factors like inflation, and GDP growth 
rate to enhance the accuracy.  
Another scope of future growth is to apply the model in other sectors. In this study, we focus on 
only 3 sectors and individual stock from each sector. We can apply our model to other sectors and 
check the model’s predictive ability. 

Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning during Covid-19 
111 
 
  
Appendix: 
ABOT (Abbot Laboratories (Pakistan) Limited – Pharmaceuticals): 
 
Appendix Figure 1 
Appendix Figure 2 

saba et al. (2023) 
112 
 
 
Appendix Figure 3 
 
 
Appendix Figure 4 
FFL (Fauji Foods Limited – Food & Personal Care Products): 

Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning during Covid-19 
113 
 
 
Appendix Figure 5 
 
Appendix Figure 6 

saba et al. (2023) 
114 
 
 
Appendix Figure 7 
 
 
Appendix Figure 8 
 
HCAR (Honda Atlas Cars (Pakistan) Limited – Automobile Assembler): 

Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning during Covid-19 
115 
 
 
Appendix Figure 9 
 
Appendix Figure 10 

saba et al. (2023) 
116 
 
Appendix Figure 11 
 
 
Appendix Figure 12 
 
References:   

Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning during Covid-19 
117 
 
A. Victor Devadoss, T. A. A. L. (2013). Stock Prediction Using Artificial Stock Prediction Using 
Artificial, International Journal of Data Mining Techniques and Applications. 
Al-Najjar, D. (2022). "The Co-movement between international and emerging stock markets using 
ANN and stepwise models: evidence from selected indices." Complexity 2022: 1-14. 
Alsamhi, M. H., et al. (2022). "Impact of Covid -19 on firms’ performance: Empirical evidence 
from India." Cogent Business & Management 9(1): 2044593. 
Amir, M., et al. (2022). "The Impact of COVID -19 Pandemic on the Financial Performance of 
Firms Listed on the Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX)." Competitive Social Science 
Research Journal 3(1): 606-620. 
Ben Jacobsen, C. Y. Z. (2012). The Halloween indicator, “Sell in May and go Away”: an even 
bigger puzzle. 
Bregu, E., et al. "THE FUTURE OF SECURITIES MARKET IN ALBANIA." 
Chen, Q. (2022). Stock Market Prediction Using Machine Learning. 2022 International 
Conference on Bigdata Blockchain and Economy Management (ICBBEM 2022), Atlantis 
Press. 
Chen, Y. (2023). "Using AH Premium to Predict Related Stock Index with Support Vector 
Machine." 
Chhajer, P., et al. (2022). "The applications of artificial neural networks, support vector machines, 
and long–short term memory for stock market prediction." Decision Analytics Journal 2: 
100015. 
de Oliveira, F. A., et al. (2011). The use of artificial neural networks in the analysis and prediction 
of stock prices. 2011 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, 
IEEE. 
Dyduch, W., et al. (2021). "Dynamic capabilities, value creation and value capture: Evidence from 
SMEs under Covid-19 lockdown in Poland." Plos one 16(6): e0252423. 
Fagner Andrade de Oliveira, L. E. Z., Marcos de Azevedo Reis, Cristiane Neri Nobre (2011). The 
use of artificial neural networks in the analysis and prediction of stock prices, IEEE. 
Ghimire, S., et al. (2022). "Testing machine learning models for seismic damage prediction at a 
regional scale using building -damage dataset compiled after the 2015 Gorkha Nepal 
earthquake." Earthquake Spectra 38(4): 2970-2993. 
saba et al. (2023) 
118 
 
Gupta, R., et al. (2023). "Investor confidence and forecastability of US stock market realized 
volatility: evidence from machine learning." Journal of Behavioral Finance 24(1): 111 -
122. 
Illa, P. K., et al. (2022). "Stock price prediction methodology using random forest algorithm and 
support vector machine." Materials Today: Proceedings 56: 1776-1782. 
Jacobsen, B. and C. Y. Zhang (2014). "The halloween indicator,‘sell in may and go away’: an even 
bigger puzzle." Available at SSRN 2154873. 
Jacobsen, C. Y. Z. B. (2012). Are monthly seasonals real? a three century perspective. 
Jegadeesh, N. and S. Titman (1993). "Returns to buying winners and selling losers: Implications 
for stock market efficiency." The Journal of finance 48(1): 65-91. 
Kang, H., et al. (2023). "Binary gravity search algorithm and support vector machine for 
forecasting and trading stock indices." International Review of Economics & Finance 84: 
507-526. 
Kar, A. (1990). "Stock prediction using artificial neural networks." Dept. of Computer Science and 
Engineering, IIT Kanpur. 
Kar, A. (1990). Stock prediction using artificial neural networks, Dept. of Computer Science and 
Engineering, IIT Kanpur. 
Khashanah, K. and C. Shao (2022). "Short -term volatility forecasting with kernel support vector 
regression and Markov switching multifractal model." Quantitative Finance 22(2): 241 -
253. 
Kim, K. -j. (2003). "Financial time series forecasting using support vector machines." 
Neurocomputing 55(1-2): 307-319. 
Kolte, A., et al. (2023). "The impact of unpredictable resource prices and equity volatility in 
advanced and emerging economies: An econometric and machine learning approach." 
Resources Policy 80: 103216. 
Koranteng, D. (2023). "C-statistic vs bayesian: A comparative analysis of x-ray spectral statistics." 
Krollner, B., et al. (2010). Financial time series forecasting with machine learning techniques: a 
survey. ESANN. 
Kurani, A., et al. (2023). "A comprehensive comparative study of artificial neural network (ANN) 
and support vector machines (SVM) on stock forecasting." Annals of Data Science 10(1): 
183-208. 
Stock Volatility Prediction Using Machine Learning during Covid-19 
119 
 
Lv, Y., et al. (2022). Stock volatility prediction Using TabNet based deep learning method. 2022 
3rd International Conference on Big Data, Artificial Intelligence and Internet of Things 
Engineering (ICBAIE), IEEE. 
Milke, V. (2022). Intraday machine learning for the securities market, Anglia Ruskin University. 
Patel, M. B. and S. R. Yalamalle (2014). "Stock price prediction using artificial neural network." 
International Journal of Innovative Research in Science, Engineering and Technology 
3(6): 13755-13762. 
Shafi, M., et al. (2020). "Impact of COVID -19 pandemic on micro, small, and medium -sized 
Enterprises operating in Pakistan." Research in Globalization 2: 100018. 
Sheth, D. and M. Shah (2023). "Predicting stock market using machine learning: best and accurate 
way to know future stock prices." International Journal of System Assurance Engineering 
and Management: 1-18. 
Tiphimmala, S. (2014). "Forecasting Stock Price Index Using Artificial Neural Networks in the 
Indonesian Stock Exchange." 
Y.A. L. B. Gianluca Bontempi, S. B. T. (2015). Machine Learning Strategies for Time Series 
Forecasting, Machine Learning Group, Computer Science Department, Univerite Libre de 
Bruxelles. 
Yang, Y. and X. Ma (2022). "Support Vector Machine and Granular Computing Based Time Series 
Volatility Prediction." Journal of Robotics 2022. 
Zhang, J., et al. (2009). "Applying time series analysis builds stock price forecast model." Modern 
Applied Science 3(5): 152-157. 
Zhang, W. and Z. Wu (2022). "Optimal hybrid framework for carbon price forecasting using time 
series analysis and least squares support vector machine." Journal of Forecasting 41(3): 
615-632. 
 
 
 